- [Instructor] We are now going to walk through
a way to create a bucket in Python.
I want to note early, and I may do so often,
that there is usually more than one way to do this work.
I am showing you a snapshot, an example,
not a complete picture.
I also want to reinforce that this isn't a course on Python.
I'm not writing production code.
I am writing example code to show you the SDK.
There are many compromises I am making
for the benefit of brevity.
But let's go ahead and jump in.
So, I want you to open up your Py S3 file,
and we're going to add a few things.
One thing that I do want to do is sort of make this
production-like, and that is that I'm going to bring in
through the environment the actual AWS credentials.
Now, if we were doing this just on our machine always,
the Bono3 library will look at the credentials file
that we've set up for the CLI.
But I don't want to leverage that.
So we'll go ahead and add in a few values here.
Now I'm going to do a few other global variables,
so I'm going to create one called PRI bucket name
for my primary bucket, and I want you to use
whatever you're using for your primary bucket.
In my case, I'm using F-P-M-L-I-L.
I'm also going to create one called transient bucket name,
and this is just so I've got a place to
work with buckets themselves.
And I'm going to call this one F-P-M-L-I-L, too.
And again, use your own pattern when doing that.
I'm going to create a couple of file name pointers here.
So F1, we are going to call LIL1.txt.
And we'll copy that over, and edit these to be two,
and then three.
Now, I'm going to specify a directory
that I'm going to use for my operations,
and in my case, it's on my desktop.
So users, fpmoles, which is my username,
desktop, and then S3.
I'm also going to create a download directory
that we'll use later on,
and that's going to be available in users
fpmoles desktop
S3
alt.
And I need to create that directory.
So let me copy that over.
Make sure that directory exists on your local machine,
so I'm going to open up a terminal,
and I'm just going to do a mkdir at that location.
Excellent.
So now, we can get in some actual code here.
So the first thing I'm going to do is replace this hello world
with loading up our access key and our secret.
So we're going to use the os.getenv,
and we will leverage that access key value.
You'll notice I need to go ahead and import OS.
We're going to do the same for secret.
Now, I'm going to create an instance of the S3 resource,
and I'm going to use boto3.resource,
and it is for S3.
Now, I'm going to pass it,
AWS access key ID equals access,
and AWS secret access key will be my secret.
And this will force the client to actually
use those credentials that I'm passing in.
One thing you don't want to ever do when you're writing code,
especially in a cloud-dated environment,
is depend on the file system.
So like, passing these in and creating our client with them,
it gives us the ability to pass them as environment
variables, which is how we would do it in a real system.
So we'll go ahead and import boto3,
and then we're ready to create our function
to create our bucket.
So def create bucket,
and we are going to pass this a name, and our S3 resource.
I'm going to do a little try except here.
So bucket equals S3 dot create bucket.
And you send it in a bucket that is equal to name.
And we're going to except a client error,
and we'll import that here in a moment, as CE.
And for the sake of simplicity, I'm just going to print them.
Obviously in a production system, you'd want to log these.
But for this purpose, it's fine.
So, we'll go ahead and import client error.
And now the last step that we need to do
is go back up here in main and call that function.
So we will call create bucket,
and we're going to use our transient bucket name
when we create this.
Pass in our S3 client.
That's everything that we need to do, with one exception.
You need to supply the environment variables
before you run this.
But I can do that in Py charm in my run configuration.
Each ID has a way to do this.
But I put in my access and secret as environment variables
so that I can run this with that.
So at this case, let's go ahead and jump to the S3 console,
just to show that we don't have any funny business going on.
You'll see that I only have my default bucket,
the one that we've been using.
If I refresh, there is no bucket there.
So we'll jump back over and we'll run our program.
Finished with an exit code of zero, which is good.
Jump back over here to our web browser,
refresh our view, and you'll see that we have a bucket.
It's a public bucket, there's no block for private.
But that's okay, we'll get to that later.
But for now, you'll see that we have a bucket.
Let's go ahead and delete that bucket
so that we don't run into issues later.
And that's all there is to using Python
to create a bucket in Amazon S3.